
# Module 2 - Lab 2 - Exercise 4 - Managing Microsoft 365 users and groups with Windows PowerShell
Windows Powershell can improve the way an administrator can automate and streamline complicated or simple tasks that can be time-consuming when performed in the Microsoft 365 admin portal interface. By entering commands directly to the tenant, tasks that would take hours by hand can be reduced to minutes or even seconds with PowerShell.  
In this exercise, you will continue in your role as Holly Dickson. Holly wants to perform some basic user maintenance using Windows PowerShell. This will enable her to compare her experience creating and maintaining users in the Microsoft 365 admin center to performing the same tasks using Windows PowerShell.  
You will use Windows PowerShell to create new user accounts and assign them licenses, modify existing user accounts, create Microsoft 365 groups using PowerShell, and configure user passwords. 

### Task 1 - Installing Microsoft Azure Active Directory module for Windows PowerShell
In this task you are going to lay the foundation for editing and managing the Microsoft 365 tenant with the use of PowerShell. 
1. You should still be logged into the **LON-CL1** VM as the **Administrator** account with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.
1. In the Search box in the bottom left corner of your taskbar, enter **powershell**. 
1. In the list of search results, right-click on **Windows PowerShell** (not **Windows Powershell (x86)**), and in the menu that appears select **Run as administrator**.
1. If a **Do you want to allow this app to make changes to your device** dialog box appears, select **Yes**.
1. Maximize your PowerShell window. In **Windows PowerShell**, at the command prompt type the following command and then press Enter:
	```Install-Module MSOnline```
1. If you are prompted to install the **NuGet provider**, enter **Y** to select **[Y] Yes**.
1. If you are prompted to confirm whether you want to install the module from an untrusted repository (PSGallery), enter **A** to select **[A] Yes to All.** 
1. Once the installation is complete, the screen will return to the Windows PowerShell command prompt. At the command prompt type the following command to install the Azure AD PowerShell module and then press Enter:
	```Install-Module AzureADPreview```
1. If you are prompted to confirm whether you want to install the module from an untrusted repository (PSGallery), enter **A** to select **[A] Yes to All.** 
1. Once the installation is complete, the screen will return to the Windows PowerShell command prompt. You have now installed the **Windows Azure Active Directory PowerShell Module**.
1. Leave the Windows PowerShell window open and proceed to the next task.

### Task 2 - Create new users and assign licenses by using Windows PowerShell
In a previous lab exercise, you created new user accounts using the **Microsoft 365 admin center**. In this task, you will create two new users using Windows PowerShell, and you will assign each an **Office 365 E5** license. You will then delete one of the users and then restore the deleted user's account back to the Active users list. 
1. You should still be logged into the **LON-CL1** VM as the **Administrator** account with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.
1. You should still have the **Windows PowerShell** window open from the prior task. At the powershell prompt type the following command that connects your PowerShell session to the Microsoft Online Service and then press Enter:  
	```Connect-MsolService```
1. In the **Sign in** dialog box that appears, log in as **Holly@xxx.onmicrosoft.com** with a password of **ibForm@tion**. 
1. PowerShell's execution policy settings dictate what PowerShell scripts can be run on a Windows system. Setting this policy to **Unrestricted** enables Holly to load all configuration files and run all scripts. At the command prompt, type the following command and then press Enter:  
	```Set-ExecutionPolicy bypass```  
	>If you are prompted to verify that you want to change the execution policy, enter **A** to select **[A] Yes to All.** 
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to create a new user named **Catherine Richard** with a password of **Pa55w.rd** and a location set to **CH**. In Catherine's username in the following command, don't forget to replace **xxx** with your unique tenant ID. Setting the -ForceChangePassword parameter to false means Catherine will not have to change her password when she signs in the first time.  
	```New-MsolUser –UserPrincipalName catherine@xxx.onmicrosoft.com –DisplayName "Catherine Richard" –FirstName Catherine –LastName Richard –Password 'Pa55w.rd' –ForceChangePassword $false –UsageLocation CH```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to create a new user named **Tameka Reed** with a password of **Pa55w.rd** and a location set to **CH**. In Tameka's username in the following command, don't forget to replace **xxx** with the unique tenant ID provided by your lab hosting provider.  
	```New-MsolUser –UserPrincipalName tameka@xxx.onmicrosoft.com –DisplayName "Tameka Reed" –FirstName Tameka –LastName Reed –Password 'Pa55w.rd' –ForceChangePassword $false –UsageLocation CH```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to display all the users who are unlicensed:  
	```Get-MsolUser -UnlicensedUsersOnly```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to show all available licenses inside Adatum's Microsoft 365 deployment:  
	```Get-MsolAccountSku```  
	The **SPB** license is the Microsoft 365 Premium license that was assigned to most of the user accounts.  
	>**Note**:  25 licenses were purchased with subscription. 
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to assign a license to **Catherine Richard**. In the command, don't forget to replace the two instances of **xxx** with your unique tenant ID. This command will assign a Microsoft 365 Business Premium license to Catherine.  
	```Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName catherine@xxx.onmicrosoft.com –AddLicenses "xxx:SPB"```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to assign a license to **Tameka Reed**. In the command, don't forget to replace the two instances of **xxx** with your unique tenant ID. This command will assign a Microsoft 365 Business Premium license to Tameka.  
	```Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName tameka@xxx.onmicrosoft.com –AddLicenses "xxx:SPB"```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to block Catherine from signing in. In the command, don't forget to replace the **xxx** with your unique tenant ID.  
	```Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@xxx.onmicrosoft.com -BlockCredential $true```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to delete Catherine's user account. In the command, don't forget to replace the **xxx** with your unique tenant ID.  
	**Note**:This command will delete Catherine's user account without requesting a confirmation.  
	```Remove-MsolUser –UserPrincipalName Catherine@xxx.onmicrosoft.com –Force```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to view the **Deleted Users** list:  
	```Get-MsolUser –ReturnDeletedUsers```  
1. Verify that Catherine Richard is in the list of deleted users. Note that it specifies that she is still licensed.
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to restore Catherine's user account to an active user status. In the command, don't forget to replace the **xxx** with your unique tenant ID.  
	```Restore-MsolUser –UserPrincipalName Catherine@xxx.onmicrosoft.com```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to view the list of deleted users:  
	```Get-MsolUser –ReturnDeletedUsers```  
1. Since Catherine should have been the only deleted user prior to being restored, there will be no users to display, so PowerShell should simply display the command prompt.
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to view the list of active users:  
	```Get-MsolUser```  
1. Verify that Catherine Richard is in the active users list.
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to unblock Catherine from signing in to Microsoft 365. In the command, don't forget to replace the **xxx** with your unique tenant ID.  
	```Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@xxx.onmicrosoft.com -BlockCredential $false```
1. Leave the Windows PowerShell window open and proceed to the next task.

### Task 3 - Bulk Import users using Windows PowerShell
In this task, you will use Windows PowerShell to import a csv file of new user account records into Microsoft 365. The file path is **C:\labfiles\O365Users.csv**.  
At first you will attempt to import the users and assign each an **Microsoft 365 Business Premium** license. Based on the outcome of that import, you will make an adjustment to the csv file and re-import the users without a license.  
1. You should still be logged into the **LON-CL1** VM as the **Administrator** account with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.
1. You should still have the **Windows PowerShell** window open from the prior task.
1. On the taskbar at the bottom of the screen, select the **File Explorer** icon.
1. In **File Explorer** navigate to **C:\labfiles**, right-click on the **O365users.csv** file, and in the menu that appears select **Open with** and then Select **Notepad**.
1. In **Notepad**, review the records for each user account. Note the domain portion of each username is **yourdomain.hostdomain.com**. You need to replace this with **xxx.onmicrosoft.com** for each user (where you will enter the unique tenant ID in place of xxx). The easiest way to do this is by doing a Find and Replace. In the menu bar at the top of the **Notepad** window, select **Edit** and then select **Replace**.
1. In the **Replace** window, copy **yourdomain.hostdomain.com** from one of the records and paste it in the **Find what** field, enter **xxx.onmicrosoft.com** in the **Replace with** field (replacing xxx with your tenant ID), and then select **Replace All**.
1. In **Notepad**, review the records for each user account. Note the license assigned to each user is **adatumyyxxxx:ENTERPRISEPACK**. You need to replace this with **xxx:SPB** for each user (where you will enter your unique tenant ID in place of xxx). The easiest way to do this is by doing a Find and Replace. The **Replace** window should still be open; if you closed it after the prior step, then open it again.
1. In the **Replace** window, copy **adatumyyxxxx:ENTERPRISEPACK** from one of the records and paste it in the **Find what** field, enter **xxx:SPB** in the **Replace with** field (replacing xxx with your tenant ID), and then select **Replace All**.
1. Close the **Replace** window.
1.  Select the X in the upper right corner of the **Notepad** window to close it.  
In the **Notepad** dialog box that appears asking if you want to save the changes to the O365Users.csv file, select **Save**.
1. Close File Explorer.
1. In **Windows PowerShell**, copy the following command and paste it in at the command prompt and then press Enter to bulk import the users from the O365Users.csv file into Microsoft 365:
	```Import-Csv -Path C:\labfiles\O365Users.csv | ForEach-Object { New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName $_."UPN" -AlternateEmailAddresses $_."AltEmail" -FirstName $_."FirstName" -LastName $_."LastName" -DisplayName $_."DisplayName" -BlockCredential $False -ForceChangePassword $False -LicenseAssignment $_."LicenseAssignment" -Password $_."Password" -PasswordNeverExpires $True -Title $_."Title" -Department $_."Department" -Office $_."Office" -PhoneNumber $_."PhoneNumber" -MobilePhone $_."MobilePhone" -Fax $_."Fax" -StreetAddress $_."StreetAddress" -City $_."City" -State $_."State" -PostalCode $_."PostalCode" -Country $_."Country" -UsageLocation $_."UsageLocation" }```
1. Notice what happens when you run this command. Each of users in the import file is successfully added into Microsoft 365, and the **isLicensed** column displays **True** for each record.  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to view the list of active users:  
	```Get-MsolUser```
1. Verify the new users from the .csv file are included in the active users list. 
1. Minimize the PowerShell window and switch back to your Edge browser. 
1. In the **Microsoft 365 admin center** navigate to the **Active users** list. Review the active users and verify the new users you just imported in PowerShell appear in the list, along with Catherine Richard and Tameka Reed, who you added individually using PowerShell.
1. In the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Show all** (if necessary) to display all the menu options. Under the **Admin centers** section, select **Exchange**.
1. In the **Exchange admin center**, in the left-hand navigation pane, expand **Recipients** and select **Mailboxes**. Review the mailboxes. Note that no Exchange mailbox was created for any of the unlicensed users.
1. Close the **Mailboxes** tab in your browser, which takes you back to the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab. 
1. Leave Windows PowerShell and your Edge browser open and proceed to the next task.

### Task 4 - Configure groups and group membership by using Windows PowerShell
In a previous lab exercise, you used the Microsoft 365 admin center to create several Microsoft 365 groups. In this task, you will use PowerShell to create a group and add two members to the group.
1. You should still be logged into the **LON-CL1** VM as the **Administrator** account with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.
1. Towards the end of the prior task, you minimized the **Windows PowerShell** window. Select the **PowerShell** icon on the taskbar to maximize the window. 
1. In **Windows PowerShell**, at the command prompt type the following command and press Enter to create a new Microsoft 365 group called **Marketing**:  
	```New-MsolGroup –DisplayName “Marketing” –Description "Marketing department users"```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to configure a variable for the group. This command will create a macro cmdlet that will retrieve all objects that belong to Marketing.  
	```$MktGrp = Get-MsolGroup | Where-Object {$_.DisplayName -eq "Marketing"}```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to configure a variable for the first user account. This command will create a macro cmdlet that retrieves all users that have a display name Catherine Richard.  
	```$Catherine = Get-MsolUser | Where-Object {$_.DisplayName -eq "Catherine Richard"}```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to configure a variable for the first user account. This command will create a macro cmdlet that retrieves all users that have a display name Tameka Reed.  
	```$Tameka = Get-MsolUser | Where-Object {$_.DisplayName -eq "Tameka Reed"}```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to add Catherine Richard to the newly created Marketing department users group:  
	```Add-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId $MktGrp.ObjectId -GroupMemberType "User" -GroupMemberObjectId $Catherine.ObjectId```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to add Tameka Reed to the newly created Marketing department users group:  
	```Add-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId $MktGrp.ObjectId -GroupMemberType "User" -GroupMemberObjectId $Tameka.ObjectId```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to retrieve all members associated with the new Marketing department users group:  
	```Get-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId $MktGrp.ObjectId```
1. Verify that Catherine Richard and Tameka Reed appear in the list of group members for the Marketing department users group.
1. Leave Windows PowerShell open and proceed to the next task.

## Task 5: Configure user passwords by using Windows PowerShell
In a previous lab, you used the Microsoft 365 admin center to update Adatum's password policy by first changing the expiration period from 90 days to 14. You then reset the expiration days from 14 days back to 90.  
For this task, you will use PowerShell to set the expiration days from 90 to 60, and the notification period from 14 days to 10.  
In a previous lab, you reset a user's password using the Microsoft 365 admin center. In this task, you will change a user's password using PowerShell. You will also use PowerShell to update every user account by turning off the **Password Never Expires** parameter for all users. This will ensure that all users will be subject to the new password policy in which their password will expire after 60 days.
1. You should still be logged into the **LON-CL1** VM as the **Administrator** account with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.
1. In **Windows PowerShell**, at the command prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to update the password policy for Adatum's **xxx.onmicrosoft.com** domain. You will change the expiration period to **60 days** and the notification period to **10 days**. In the command, don't forget to replace the **xxx** with your unique tenant ID.  
	```Set-MsolPasswordPolicy -DomainName xxx.onmicrosoft.com” –ValidityPeriod “90”```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to change Tameka Reed's password to **P@$$W0rd**. In the command, don't forget to replace the **xxx** with the unique tenant ID provided by your lab hosting provider.   
	```Set-MsolUserPassword –UserPrincipalName "Tameka@xxx.onmicrosoft.com" –NewPassword 'P@$$W0rd'```  
1. At the Powershell prompt, type the following command and then press Enter to turn off **Password Never Expires** parameter for all users. This will ensure that all users will be subject to the new password policy in which their password will expire after 60 days.  
	```Get-MsolUser | Set-MsolUser –PasswordNeverExpires $false```
1. Leave your Windows PowerShell session open for future lab exercises; simply minimize it before going on to the next exercise. In addition, leave your browser and all its tabs open.  

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have created new users, assigned licenses, modified existing users, and configured groups and Adatum's password policies, and reset a user password by using the Windows PowerShell command-line interface.
# Proceed to Lab 2 - Exercise 5