# Module 4 - Lab 4 - Exercise 3 - Enable Hybrid Domain Join
In this exercise, you will run Azure AD Connect to configure Hybrid Azure AD join. Hybrid Azure AD join enables automatic account configuration and Single-Sign-On to cloud services for devices joined to Adatum's on-premises Active Directory. You will verify the device sync and verify the Hybrid Azure AD Join on LON-CL1 by using dsregcmd and the Windows 10 Mail app.

### Task 1 - Configure Hybrid Azure AD join
In this task, you will run the Azure AD Connect setup wizard to enable Hybrid Azure AD join of devices joined to Adatum’s on-premises Active Directory. 
1. You should still be logged into **LON-DC1** as the **Administrator** from the prior exercise.
1. Start **Azure AD Connect** by double-clicking the icon on the Desktop.
1. In **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect**, click **Configure**.
1. In **Additional tasks**, select **Configure device options**, and then select **Next**.
1. In **Overview**, select **Next**.
1. In **Connect to Azure AD** window, enter **Holly@xxx.onmicrosoft.com** (where xxx is your tenant ID) in the **USERNAME** field, enter **ibForm@tion** in the **PASSWORD** field, and then select **Next**.
1. If a **Sign in to your account** window pops up, use it to sign in as **Holly@xxx.onmicrosoft.com** (where xxx is your tenant ID) with the password **ibForm@tion**.
1. In **Device options**, select **Configure Hybrid Azure AD join**, and then select **Next**.
1. In **Device operating systems**, select **Windows 10 or later domain-joined devices**, and then select **Next**.
1. In SCP configuration, select the checkbox to the left of **Adatum.com**, and under **Authentication Service** select **Azure Active Directory**, and select **Add**.
1. In the **Enterprise Admin Credentials** window, enter **ADATUM\Administrator** in the **USERNAME** field, enter **Pa55w.rd** in the **PASSWORD** field, and then select **OK**.
1. Back in **SCP configuration**, select **Next**.
1. **In Ready to configure**, select **Configure**.
1. In **Configuration complete**, select **Exit**.
1. Switch to **LON-CL1** and if necessary, close any open applications and then select the **Start button**, select the icon for **Administrator** and then select sign out.
1. On the log-in screen, click **Other user** and sign-in as **Beth@xxxUPNxxx** (where xxxUPNxxx is the name your lab hosting provider assigned to the custom domain) account with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.

### Task 2 - Assign licenses
In this task, you assign product licenses to a synced user.
1. Switch to **LON-DC1**, after finishing the previous lab exercise, you should still be logged into Microsoft 365 in your Edge browser as Holly Dickson.
1. In your **Edge** browser, select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab, and then in the left-hand navigation pane, expand **Users**, and then select **Active Users**.
1. In **Active users**, in **Search active users list** enter **beth** and press Enter.
1. Select **Beth Burke**.
1. In the menu bar above the list of users, select **Manage product licenses**. If you do not see this button, select the **ellipsis** icon (**More actions**). In the drop-down menu that appears, select **Manage product liceneses**.
1. In the **Licenses and apps** pane that appears for Beth Burke, select **Add License* and turno on **Assign license to Beth Burke**, and click **Save changes**, then close the pane by clicking the **X** in the upper right-hand corner.

### Task 3 - Verify device sync
In this task, you will start another sync cycle and verify that computer accounts from Adatum's on-premises Active Directory are synced as devices to Azure Active Directory.
1. You should still be logged into **LON-DC1** as the **Administrator** from the prior task.
1. In the **PowerShell** window, press the **Up arrow** key to repeat the last command:  
   ```Start-AdSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Delta```
1. After finishing the previous exercise, you should still be logged into Microsoft 365 in your Edge browser as Holly Dickson.
1. In the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **...Show all** to display all the navigation menu options.
1. In the left-hand navigation pane, under **Admin centers**, select **Azure Active Directory**.
1. In the **Entra admin center**, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Devices/All deives**.
1. In the **Devices | All devices** blade, look for **LON-CL1**. If you do not see the device, wait a few minutes, and above the list of devices, click **Refresh** until you see **LON-CL1**.

### Task 4 - Verify the Hybrid Azure AD Join
In this task, you will verify the Hybrid Azure AD Join by running the dsregcmd command. Moreover, you will verify Single-Sign-On and automatic account configuration in the Windows 10 Mail app.
1. Switch to **LON-CL1**.
1. You should still be logged in as **Beth** from the previous task. In order to trigger the Hybrid Join, you need to sign out as Beth.
1. On the log-in screen, you log in as **Beth@xxxUPNxxx** (where xxxUPNxxx is the name your lab hosting provider assigned to the custom domain) account with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.
1. Right-click the **Windows (Start) icon** in the lower left corner of the taskbar, and select **Windows Powershell**.
1. Type ```dsregcmd /status``` and press Enter.
1. In the output, beside **AzureADJoined** you should see **YES**. If not, wait a few moments and try again.
1. Close **Windows Powershell**.
1. Select the **Windows (Start)** icon in the lower left corner of the taskbar, and select **Settings**.
1. In **Windows Settings**, select **Accounts**.
1. Select **Email & app accounts**. You should see Beth's Work or school account.  
 >  **Note:** If you do not see the **Beth@xxxUPNxxx** account listed, log off and back on again and try again from **Step 8**.
1. Close **Settings**.
1. Select the **Windows (Start)** icon in the lower left corner of the taskbar, and select **Mail**.
1. In the **Add an account** pop-up, Beth's work or school account should be offered at the top of the list. Select it.
1. The account should be configured automatically without any intervention. When the **All done!** message appears, click **Done**.
	>**Note:** Syncing might not work yet, if the mailbox was not created. If Beth receives the first mail, syncing should work.
1. Close the **Mail** app and then Sign out as Beth.

# End of Lab 4