# Module 6 - Lab 7 - Exercise 3 - Configuring client access policies
Outlook on the web enables Adatum's users to access their mailboxes through a web browser. After Adatum created its Microsoft 365 tenant with Exchange Online, the tenant included a single Outlook Web App policy titled OWAMailboxPolicy-Default. This policy defines Outlook on the web settings for all users. However, Holly Dickson, Adatum's Enterprise Admin, wants to create an additional Outlook on the web policy that applies to a specific user (in this case, Patti Fernandez). By verifying whether a user-specific policy such as this works, Holly will be able to vary the Outlook on the web settings for users with different needs.  
Holly will then configure a mailbox policy for mobile devices that requires a password and sets the parameter for password length. Holly will then create a mobile device access policy that places any new devices into quarantine, at which point the device must be approved to be removed from quarantine so that it can send and receive messages.

## Task 1: Configure an Outlook Web App policy
1. You should still be logged into LON-CL1 as the **Administrator** with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.
1. Your Edge browser should be open from the prior exercise, with tabs open for the **Microsoft 365** homepage, the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, and the **Exchange admin center**. You should still be signed into Microsoft 365 as Holly Dickson.  
	If you closed the Exchange admin center tab after the prior lab exercise, then in the **Microsoft 365 Admin center**, under **Admin Centers** in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Exchange**.
1. In the **Exchange admin center** tab, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Other features** .
1. On the **Other features** page, Select the **Current Location** link on the **OWA policy** line.
1. On the the **Outlook Web App policies** tab, note the existing Outlook Web App policy titled **OWAMailboxPolicy-Default**. This policy defines Outlook on the web settings for all users.  
	Since Holly wants to add a new policy, select the **+** icon on the menu bar. 
1. In the **new Outlook Web App mailbox policy** window, enter **Limited features** in the **Policy name** field. Note - This policy is titled **Limited features** since it reduces the number of features that will be enabled for the policy.
1. The window displays a list of features that will be enabled for this Outlook Web App mailbox policy. The majority of these features are selected by default. Clear the check boxes for the following features that Holly does not want included in this custom policy:  
	- **Instant messaging**
	- **Text messaging**
	- **LinkedIn contact sync**
	- **Journaling**
1. At the bottom of the window, under **Private computer or OWA for devices**, clear the **Direct file access** check box, select **Save**, and then select **OK** once the information has been successfully saved.
1. Stay in the classic **Exchange admin center** and, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **recipients**.
1. On the **recipients** page, the **mailboxes** tab at the top of the page is displayed by default. In the list of user mailboxes, select **Nona Snider** and then select the **pencil**(Edit) icon on the menu bar.
1. In the **Nona Snider** window, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **mailbox features**.  
	>If you receive a **Warning** dialog box indicating the user hasn't logged on to the mailbox, so there is no data to return, select **OK**.
1. Scroll down to the **Email Connectivity** section and select **View details**.
1. In the **Outlook Web App mailbox policy** window, select **Browse**. This displays the list of existing Outlook Web App policies. Select **Limited features**, select **OK**, and then select **Save**.
1. In the **Nona Snider** window, select **Save** and then select **OK** once the information is successfully saved.
1. You will now open **Outlook 2019**. Select the Windows icon in the bottom left-hand corner of the taskbar. In the program menu that appears, scroll down and select **Outlook**.  
	>If a **Microsoft Office Activation Wizard** appears that indicates this copy of Microsoft Office is not activated, select **Close**.
1. By default Outlook should open for the tenant admin account (the global Administrator, whose email address end with @xxx.onmicrosoft.com). However, if you are instead prompted for user credentials in a dialog box, enter your global administator account.
1. If a **Stay signed in to all your apps** window appears, click on the **No, sign in to this app only** link.
1. In **Outlook 2019**, select **New Email**.
1. In the **new email** window, select the **To** button, and in the list of users that appears, select **Nona Snider**, select **To**, and then select **OK**.
1. In the **Subject** box, enter **Attachment Test**.
1. In the ribbon, select **Attach File**, and then Select **Browse This PC**.
1. In the **Insert File** window, browse to **C:\Windows\Logs\DISM**, select **dism.log**, and then select **Insert**.
1. Select **Send**.
1. After sending the email, close Outlook 2019.
1. Switch to **LON-CL2**.
1. **Outlook** (web version) should still be open from a previous lab; however, you should be logged in as the global Administrator from the first exercise in this lab. Therefore, you must log out from Outlook as the global Administrator and log back in as Nona.  
	To do so, select the Administrator's user icon (the circle with the initials) in the upper right corner of the screen, then select **Sign out**, enter **https://outlook.office365.com** in the address bar, sign in as Nona Snider (**nona@xxx.onmicrosoft.com**, where xxx is your tenant ID), and enter **Pa55w.rd** as password.
1. In Nona's **Inbox**, select the email that you just sent from the **MOD Administrator** that contains the **Attachment Test** subject.
1. Select the **dism.log** message attachment.
1. A message should appear indicating that you do not have permission to download files.  
	>**Note:** In some cases, it may take a few minutes for the new Outlook Web App mailbox policy to take effect, so you may not see this message at this time.
1. Close the message attachment window.
1. Leave the Edge browser open and and all its tabs.

## Task 2: Configure mobile-device access
In this task, you will create a mobile device access policy that places any new devices into quarantine, at which point the device must be approved to be removed from quarantine so that it can send and receive messages. 
1. Switch to **LON-CL1**, where you should still be logged in as the **Administrator** with a password of **Pa55w.rd**. 
1. Your Edge browser should be open from the prior exercise, with tabs open for the **Microsoft 365** homepage, the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, and the **Exchange admin center**. You should still be signed into Microsoft 365 as Holly Dickson.  
	If you closed the Exchange admin center tab after the prior lab exercise, then in the **Microsoft 365 Admin center**, under **Admin Centers** in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Exchange**.
1. In the **Exchange admin center**, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Mobile device access** under the **mobile** section.
1. On the **Quarantined Devices** page, click on the **Edit** button.
1. In the **Exchange ActiveSync access settings** window, under the **Connection Settings** section, select the **Quarantine – Let me decide to block or allow later** option.
1. Under the **Quarantine Notification Email Messages** section, enter your global administrator account.
1. In the **Exchange ActiveSync access settings** window, select **Save** and close the **Exchange ActiveSync access settings** window.
1. Leave the Edge browser open and and all its tabs.

## Task 3: Configure a mailbox policy for mobile devices
In this task, you will configure a mailbox policy for mobile devices that requires a password and sets the parameter for password length.
1. You should still be logged into **LON-CL1** as the **Administrator** with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.
1. Your Edge browser should be open from the prior exercise, with tabs open for the **Microsoft 365** homepage, the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, and the **Exchange admin center**. You should still be signed into Microsoft 365 as Holly Dickson.  
	If you closed the Exchange admin center tab after the prior lab exercise, then in the **Microsoft 365 Admin center**, under **Admin Centers** in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Exchange**.
1. In the **Exchange admin center**, select the **Mobile device mailbox policy** from the **Mobile** section.
1. On the **Mobile device mailbox policy** page, click on the **Default** policy.
1. In the **Edit mobile device mailbox policy** window, select the **security** tab in the left-hand navigation pane.
1. In the **security** tab, select the **Require a mobile device mailbox password** check box that appears at the top of the window.
1. Select the **Allow simple passwords** check box (if it's not already selected).
1. Select the **Minimum password length** check box, enter a value of **6**.
1. In the **Password recycle count** field, enter a value of **5**, select **Save**, and then close the **Edit mobile device mailbox policy** once the information is successfully saved.
11. Leave the Edge browser and all its tabs open.
# End of Lab 7