# Module 6 - Lab 7 - Exercise 1 - Configuring message transport settings
In this exercise, you will take on the persona of Holly Dickson, Adatum’s Enterprise Administrator. As part of her pilot project for Adatum’s Exchange deployment, Holly wants to begin by creating custom send and receive connectors in her Exchange Online deployment using the Microsoft 365 Exchange admin center. Exchange uses connectors to enable incoming and outgoing mail flow in Exchange Online and between services in the transport pipeline.  
You will then create a series of mail flow rules that are designed to protect Adatum’s messaging environment. You will first create a mail flow rule that adds a disclaimer message to each received email; the message will indicate that you must delete the message if you are not the intended recipient. You will then create a second rule in which any email received that was intended for Megan Bowen must be forwarded automatically to the MOD Administrator for approval first. Finally, if the Development teams sends or receives email, then journal reports will be sent to a specific web address.

### Task 1 - Create a custom send and receive connector to enforce TLS
In this task you will create two connectors to enforce Transport Layer Security (TLS) with Trey Research, one of Adatum's most important partners who deals in top-secret government information that must be encrypted within email messages. One connector will be a send (outbound) connector from Adatum to Trey Research. The second connector will be a receive (inbound) connector from Trey Research to Adatum.  
>**Important:** Connectors help control the flow of email messages to and from your Microsoft 365 organization. While most organizations do not require connectors, there are certain scenarios that require them. For Adatum, it frequently exchanges top-secret  information with Trey Research. As such, Adatum wants to apply security restrictions by using TLS to encrypt sensitive information.  
1. You should still be logged into **LON-CL1** as the **Administrator** account with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.
1. Your Edge browser should be open from the prior lab, with tabs open for the **Microsoft 365** homepage, the **Microsoft 365 admin center**.
1. In the **Microsoft 365 Admin center**, under **Admin Centers** in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Exchange**.
1. In the **Exchange admin center**, in the left-hand navigation pane, expand **Mail flow**.
1. Under **Mail flow** , select **Connectors**.
1. On the **Connectors** page, you want to add a new send connector. Select **+ Add a connector** that appears on the menu bar above the list of connectors.
1. On the **New connector** page, select **Office 365** under **Connection from**.  
	Under **Connection to**, select **Partner organization**, and then Select **Next**.
1. On the **Connector name** page, enter **Trey Research Outgoing** in the **Name** box and then select **Next**.
1. On the **Use of connector** page, select the **Only when email messages are sent to these domains** option.
	In the textbox, enter **treyresearch.net** and then select the **+**.
1. On the **Use of connector** page, select **Next**.
1. On the **Routing** page, select the  **Use the MX record associated with the partner’s domain** option and then select **Next**.
1. On the **Security restrictions** page, select the **Always use Transport Layer Security (TLS) to secure the connection** check box, select the **Issued by a trusted certificate authority (CA)** option, and then select **Next.**
1. On the **Validation email** page, in the textbox, enter **postmaster@treyresearch.net** and then select the **+**.
1. On the **Validation email** page, select **Validate**.
	Wait while validation completes...
1. Note the status of the **Send test email** task is **Failed**.
1. On the **Validation email** page, select **Next** and click on **Yes proceed** to still save the connector even though the validation failed.  
	>**Note:** Validation of mail flow to this connector will fail because the connector is for a fictitious organization that does not exist. This is expected behavior for this lab.
1. On the *Review Connector** page, select **Create connector**.
1. On the **Connector created** page, select **Done**.
1. You just added a send (outbound) connector from Adatum to Trey Research. You will now create a receive (inbound) connector from Trey Research to Adatum. In the **Exchange admin center**, on the **Connectors** page, select the **+ Add a connector** icon on the menu bar to add another connector.
1. On the **New connector** page, under the **Connection from** box, select **Partner organization**.  
1. Note that the **Connection to** is automatically set to **Office 365**. Select **Next**.
1. In he **Connector name** page, enter **Trey Research Incoming** in the **Name** field and then select **Next**.
1. In the **Authenticating sent email** page, select the **By verifying that the sender domain matches one of the following domains**.
1. In the textbox, enter **treyresearch.net**, then select the **+**.
1. On the **Security restrictions** page, select the **Reject email messages if they aren’t sent over TLS** check box and then select **Next**.
1. On the **Review connector** page, select **Create connector**, and then select **Done** once the information is successfully saved.
1. On the **Connectors** page, you should now see the send (outbound) and receive (inbound) connectors that you just created.  
1. Leave your browser and all tabs open for the next task.

### Task 2: Create transport rules
In the next few tasks, you will create a series of mail flow rules that are designed to protect Adatum’s messaging environment. In this task, you will create a mail flow rule that adds a disclaimer message to each received email; the message will indicate that you must delete the message if you are not the intended recipient. You will then create a second rule in which any email received that was intended for Megan Bowen must be forwarded automatically to the MOD Administrator for approval first.
1. You should still be logged into **LON-CL1** as the **Administrator** account with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.
1. Your Edge browser should be open from the prior task, with tabs open for the **Microsoft 365** homepage, the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, and the **Exchange admin center**. You should still be signed into Microsoft 365 as Holly Dickson.
1. In the **Exchange admin center**, the **Mail flow** section in the left-hand navigation pane should still be expanded from the prior task, and on this page, the **Connectors** page should be displayed. Since you want to create a message transport rule, select **Rules** in the left-hand navigation pane.
1. You will begin by creating a rule that adds a disclaimer message to each received email. On the **Rules** page, select the **+ Add a rule** on the menu bar. In the menu that appears, select **Apply disclaimers**.
1. In the **Set rule conditions*** window, enter the following information:  
	- In the **Name** field, enter **A. Datum Disclaimer**
	- In the **Apply this rule if** box, select **The recipient** and **is external/internal**. This opens a **Select recipient location** window. Select **Inside the organization** and then Select **Save**.
	- In the **Do the following** section, select the **Enter text** hyperlink. In the **specify disclaimer text** window, enter the following message in the text field and then select **Save**: **If you are not the intended recipient of this message, you must delete it.**
	- In the **Do the following** section and below the disclaimer that you just entered, select the **Select one** hyperlink. On the **specity fallback action** window, you must select an action to be performed if the disclaimer cannot be inserted. In this case, select **Wrap** and then Select **Save**.
1. Select **Next** and, on the **Set rule settings** choose the **Enforce** rule mode and select a severity level of **Medium**.
1. On the **Set rule settings** select **Next**.
1. In the **Review and finish** window, select **Finish**.
1. Once the new rule is created, select **Done** to quit the rule creation wizard.
1. Click on the newly create rule and switch the **Enable or disable rule** to **Enabled** and close the rule window.
1. You will now create a second mail flow rule that automatically forwards to the MOD Administrator any email intended for Misty Philips; the MOD Administrator must approve the email before it can be forwarded to Mistyn.   
	On the **rules** tab, select the **+ Add a rule** on the menu bar. In the menu that appears, select **Send messages to a moderator**.
1. In the **Set rule conditions** window, enter the following information:  
	- In the **Name** field, enter **Messages that must be moderated**.
	- In the **Apply the rule if** box, select **The recipient** and **is this person**.
	- In the **Select Members** window, select **Misty Philips**, and then select **Save**.
	- In the **Do the following** section, select **Forward the message for approval** and **to these people****. 
	- In the **Select Members** window, select your global administrator account and then select **Save**.
1. Select **Next** and, on the **Set rule settings** choose the **Enforce** rule mode and select a severity level of **Low**.
1. On the **Set rule settings** select **Next**.
1. In the **Review and finish** window, select **Finish**.
1. Once the new rule is created, select **Done**.
1. Click on the newly create rule and switch the **Enable or disable rule** to **Enabled** and close the rule window.
1. Leave your browser and all tabs open for the next task.

### Task 3: Validate the new transport rules
In this task, you will test the new transport rules that you created in the prior task. You will send an email from Patti Fernandez to Misty Philips, which should trigger the two message transport rules. You will then verify the Disclaimer message is added to the message, and that the message is forwarded to the MOD Administrator for approval. 
1. Switch to **LON-CL2**. You should still be logged in as the **Admin**.
1. If **Microsoft Edge** is open, you should still be logged into Microsoft 365 as Alan Yoo from an earlier lab. Log out as Alan, then close all tabs except for the **Sign out** tab. Then close your Edge browser session.  
	Once Edge is closed, then the **Edge** icon on the taskbar to open a new browser session.
1. In **Microsoft Edge**, open a new tab and then enter the following URL in the address bar: **https://Outlook.office365.com**
1. In the **Pick an account** window, select **Use another account**. In the **Sign in** window, enter **Nona@xxx.onmicrosoft.com** (where xxx is your tenant ID) and select **Next**. In the **Enter password** window, enter **Pa55w.rd** and then select **Sign in**.
1. In **Outlook on the web**, select the **New mail** button.
1. In the email form, in the **To** field, enter **Misty**. This will display a list of users whose first name starts with Misty. Select **Misty Philips**.
1. In the **Subject** field, enter **Message transport tests**.
1. In the message body, enter **Disclaimer message test and moderator approval test** and then select the **Send** sign button.
1. You will now sign out as Nona Snider and then sign into Outlook on the web as your global administrator. Select the NS initials in the upper right corner of the screen, and select **Sign out**.
1. Once you are signed out of **Outlook on the web**, enter the following URL in the address bar: **https://Outlook.office365.com**  
	>**Note :** If outlook is automatically logged with another account (Holly...), sign out again
1. In the **Pick an account** window, select **+ Use another account**. In the **Sign in** window, enter your global amdinistrator account and select **Next**. In the **Enter password** window, enter your global administrator's password and then select **Sign in**.
1. In **Outlook on the web**, check the global aministrator's **Inbox**. If you see the message from Nona to Misty, open the message and verify the disclaimer message was added to the body of the email.  
	However, if the email is not in the global Admin's Inbox, check the **Junk Email** folder. If the email is not there, then sign out of Outlook on the web as the global Admin, repeat steps 10-11 to sign into Outlook on the web as **Misty Philips** (where the username will be **Misty@xxx.onmicrosoft.com** and the password **Pa55w.rd**.  
	If the email from Nona is in Misty's Inbox, then verify the disclaimer message was added. However, the fact that this email is in Misty's Inbox indicates the second message transport rule that you created has not completely propagated through Microsoft 365. Sometimes it takes several hours for transport rules to fully propagate. If this is the case, switch back to LON-CL1 and verify the **Messages that must be moderated** rule is set up properly. If everything looks OK, then wait an hour or so, switch back to LON-CL2, and then repeat this task (sign in as Nona, create the email, then sign back in as the global Admin to verify the email).
1. On LON-CL2, sign out of Outlook as the global Administrator, and then close your Edge browser session.

### Task 4 - Track internal and external message delivery
1. You should still be logged into LON-CL1 as the **Administrator**.
1. The Edge browser should be open from the prior task, with tabs open for the **Microsoft 365** homepage, the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, and the **Exchange admin center**. You should still be signed into Microsoft 365 as Holly Dickson.   
	If you closed the Exchange admin center tab after the prior lab exercise, then in the **Microsoft 365 Admin center**, under **Admin Centers** in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Exchange**.
1. In the **Exchange admin center**, in the left-hand navigation pane, under **mail flow**, select **message trace**.

1. Take some time to review the default queries.
1. Once you have finished reviewing the pre-defined queries, select the **+ Start a trace** button.
1. In the **New message trace** window, review the search options and then select **Search**.
1. In the **Message trace search results** window, select the message sent from Nona Snider to Misty Philips.
1. In the **Message trace details** window, review the information in the message. Select the arrow in the **Message events** section to expand it. In the **Event** column, note the **Transport rule** event, which applied the disclaimer transport rule.
1. If the **Message transport tests** transport rule was applied, note the event that sent the message to the MOD Administrator. 
1. Select the **Close** button.

**Results**: After completing the exercise, you will have configured message-transport settings.
# Proceed to Lab 7 - Exercise 2
