
## Module 7 - Lab 8 - Exercise 1 - Configure Microsoft Teams
In this exercise you will learn how to manage and configure Microsoft Teams through the Teams admin center. As Holly Dickson, Adatum's Enterprise Admin, you have decided to customize the company's Global meeting policy. Meeting policies control the features that are available to participants in meetings that are scheduled by users in an organization. An organization-wide policy named Global is created by default, and all users within the organization are automatically assigned this meeting policy. An admin can either make changes to this policy or create one or more custom policies and assign users to them. Holly has chosen to customize the Global policy.  
Holly also wants to use the Teams meetings settings to control whether anonymous users can join Teams meetings and customize meeting invitations. As part of Adatum’s pilot project for implementing Microsoft Teams, she has been tasked with configuring Teams meeting settings to see how they handle email invitations.  
Next, Holly wants to create a new messaging policy that addresses the chat and channel messaging requirements set forth by Adatum’s project team. She will then create a resource account for a cloud call queue, which is a service that accepts customer calls, plays a greeting message, and then places the customer calls in a wait queue while searching a pre-configured list of agents to answer each call. Once she has created the resource account for her calling queue, she will create the call queue itself and assign it the resource account.  
At this point, Holly will turn her attention to calling policies. She has been tasked with creating a custom calling policy for Adatum. Instead of customizing the default global policy, she will follow best practice guidelines and create her own customized policy that will be used as Adatum’s default policy.  
Finally, Holly wants to manage Teams access, and specifically external access and guess access. She wants to block communication with users from a specific domain  that has been the source of multiple spam attacks within Adatum over the past year. At the same time, she wants to allow communication with the users from another domain that is one of Adatum's key business partners.

### Task 1 – Manage Global Meeting Policy
Meeting policies control the features that are available to participants in meetings that are scheduled by users in your organization. An organization-wide policy named Global is created by default, and all users in your organization are automatically assigned this meeting policy. You can either make changes to this policy or create one or more custom policies and assign users to them. When you create a custom policy, you can allow or prevent certain features from being available to your users, and then assign the policy to one or more users who will have the settings applied to them.  
As Holly Dickson, Adatum's Enterprise Administrator, you want to customize the company's Global meeting policy as part of Adatum’s pilot project for implementing Microsoft Teams.
1. Switch to **LON-CL1**, where you should still be logged in as **ADATUM\Administrator** and password **Pa55w.rd**.
1. You should still have Microsoft Edge and the Microsoft 365 admin center open from an earlier lab. If so, proceed to the next step; otherwise, open Microsoft Edge, navigate to **https://portal.office.com/**, log in as **Holly@M365xZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com** (where ZZZZZZ is the tenant ID provided by your lab hosting provider) with a password of **ibForm@tion**, and then in the **Microsoft 365** homepage, select **Admin** to open the Microsoft 365 admin center.
1. To start fresh in this Teams lab exercise, close any tab in the Edge browser other than the **Microsoft 365** homepage tab and the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab. 
1. In the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Show all** (if necessary), then scroll down to **Admin centers** and select **Teams.** This will open the **Microsoft Teams admin center** in a new tab.
1. If a **Welcome to the Teams admin center** window appears, select the **Skip tour** option.
1. In the **Microsoft Teams admin center**,  in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Meetings** and then select **Meeting policies**.
1. In the **Meeting policies** window, scroll down to the list of meeting policies and select **Global (Org-wide default)**. 
1. In the **Global (Org-wide default)** window that appears, under the **General** section, review each setting. All settings in this section should be turned **On** (except Live streaming mode).
1. Under the **Audio &amp; video** section, review each setting.
1. Under the **Recording and transcription** section, review each setting and set **Transcription** to **On**.
1. Under the **Content Sharing** section, review each setting. Select the drop-down arrow in the **Screen sharing mode** field and select **Single application** and then set the **External participants can give or request control** setting to **On**.
1. Under the **Participants &amp; guests** section, review each setting. Because Adatum has had issues in the past with non-invited external users dialing into meetings, you have been asked to verified the **Dial-in users can bypass the lobby** option is set to **Off**. This setting controls whether people who dial in by phone will automatically join the meeting or must wait in the lobby until they are admitted to the call. Because the **Automatically admit people** setting is set to **People in my organization and guests**, anyone who dials-in will wait in the lobby until admitted; this includes both Adatum and non-Adatum participants. You may decide to turn this setting **On** if it proves to be problematic in practice, but for now, you want to begin with this level of control. 
1. Select the **Save** button at the bottom of the page.
1. Select **Confirm** in the **Changes will take time to take effect** window.
1. Leave all tabs open in your browser and proceed to the next task. 

### Task 2 – Manage Meeting Settings
As Holly Dickson, Adatum’s Microsoft 365 Enterprise Administrator, you use the Teams meetings settings to control whether anonymous users can join Teams meetings and customize meeting invitations. You can also use these settings to enable Quality of Service (QoS) and set port ranges for real-time traffic. These settings apply to all Teams meetings that users schedule in your organization. As part of Adatum’s pilot project for implementing Microsoft Teams, you want to configure Teams meeting settings to see how they handle email invitations.
1. On **LON-CL1** you should still have the **Microsoft Teams admin center** open from the prior task. In the left-hand navigation pane, under the **Meetings** group, select **Meeting settings.**
1. On the **Meetings settings** page, under the **Email invitation** section, enter (or copy and paste in) the following information:
	- Logo URL: leave blank
	- Legal URL: **https://adatum.com/legal.html**
	- Help URL: **https://adatum.com/joiningmeetinghelp.html**
	- Footer: **Please accept at your earliest convenience. Thank you!**
1. Select the **Preview invite** button.
1. On the **Email invite preview** window, review the preview image of the invitation and then select the **Close** button at the bottom of the page.
1. On the **Meetings settings** page, under the **Network** section, review the current settings.  
	>**Note:** If you have specific ports that your company uses for sending and receiving media traffic, this is where you would enter those ports. If you do not have specific media ports prescribed by your network administrator, then you would leave this section alone. For the purposes of this lab, you will not update this section. 
1. Scroll to the bottom of the page and select **Save**.
1. Select **Confirm** in the **Changes will take time to take effect** window.
1. Leave all tabs open in your browser and proceed to the next task. 

### Task 3 – Manage Messaging Policies
Messaging policies are used to control which chat and channel messaging features are available to users in Microsoft Teams. You can use the Global default policy that is created automatically or create one or more custom messaging policies for people in your organization. After you create a policy, you can assign it to a user or group of users in your organization.  
As part of her Microsoft Teams pilot project for Adatum, Holly wants to create a new messaging policy that addresses the chat and channel messaging requirements set forth by Adatum’s project team.
1. On **LON-CL1** you should still have the **Microsoft Teams admin center** open from the prior task. In the left-hand navigation pane, select **Messaging policies**.
1. In the **Messaging policies** window, view the list of messaging policies. As you can see, only the **Global (Org-wide default)** policy exists. Select **+ Add** in the menu bar that appears above the list of policies.
1. In the **Messaging policies \ Add** window, enter **Chat and Channel Messaging Policy** in the **Add a name for your messaging policy** field at the top of the form.
1. Select the following values for each setting:
	- Owners can delete sent messages: **Off**
	- Delete sent messages: **Off**
	- Delete chat : **Off**
	- Edit sent messages: **On**
	- Read receipts: **Turned on for everyone**
	- Chat: **On**
	- Chat with groups : **On**
	- Giphy in conversations: **Off**
	- Giphy content rating: **Strict**
	- Memes in conversations: **Off**
	- Stickers in conversations: **Off**
	- URL previews: **On**
	- Translate messages: **On**
	- Immersive reader for messages: **On**
	- Send urgent messages using priority notifications: **On**
	- Create voice messages: **Allowed in chats and channels**
	- On mobile devices, display favorite channels about recent chats: **Not enabled**
	- Remove users from a group chat: **Off**
	- Text prediction : **Off**
	- Suggested replies: **On**
	- Chat permission role : **Restricted permissions**
	- Users with full chat permissions can delete any message : **Off**
	- Viedo messages : **Off**
1. Select **Save.** 
1. Leave all tabs open in your browser and proceed to the next task. 

### Task 4 – Create a Resource Account
A resource account, which is referred to as a disabled user object in Azure Active Directory, can be used to represent resources in general. For example, a resource account in Exchange can be used to represent conference rooms, and in Microsoft Teams, resource accounts can be used to represent Phone System call queues and auto attendants.  
As part of Adatum’s pilot project for implementing Microsoft Teams, Holly Dickson has been asked to create a resource account for a cloud call queue, which is a service that accepts customer calls, plays a greeting message, and then places the customer calls in a wait queue while searching a pre-configured list of agents to answer each call.  
Creating a calling queue is a two-step process. In this task, you will first create a resource account that represents the call queue. In the next task, you will create the actual call queue and associate it with this resource account.  
1. On **LON-CL1** you should still have the **Microsoft Teams admin center** open from the prior task. In the left-hand navigation pane, select **Voice** and then select **Resource accounts.**
1. In the **Resource accounts** window, select **+ Add** in the menu bar at the top of the page.
1. In the **Add resource account** pane that appears on the right, enter the following information:
	- Display name: **Calling Queue 1**
	- Username: **Ccq**
	- Domain name: In the domain name field to the right of the username, select the drop-down arrow and select **M365xZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com** (where ZZZZZZ is your unique tenant ID provided by your lab hosting provider)
	- Resource account type: **Call queue**
1. Select **Save**. **Calling Queue 1** will now appear in the list of Resource accounts. 
1. Leave all tabs open in your browser and proceed to the next task. 

### Task 5 - Create a Call Queue
Now that you have created the resource account for your calling queue, you will create the call queue itself and assign it the resource account.
1. On **LON-CL11** you should still have the **Microsoft Teams admin center** open from the prior task. In the left-hand navigation pane, under **Voice** and then select **Call queues.**
1. In the **Call queues** window, select **+ Add** in the menu bar at the top of the page.
1. In the **Call queues \ Add a call queue** window, enter **Call Queue 1** in the **Add a name for your call queue** field at the top of the form.
1. The page displays a message indicating **You haven’t added any resource accounts yet.** Below this message, select the **Add** button.
1. In the **Add account** pane that appears on the right-side of the screen, in the **Search by display or username** box, enter **Calling.** As you type **Calling**, a popup appears listing call resource accounts whose title starts with **Calling**. **Calling Queue 1** is displayed. As you hover your mouse over **Calling Queue 1**, an **Add** button appears to the right of it. Select the **Add** button.
1. At the bottom of the **Add accounts** pane, select **Add.** This returns you to the **Call Queue 1** window, which now displays **Calling Queue 1** in the list of Resource accounts associated with this call queue.
1. In the **Call Queue 1** window, click **Next** and in the **Greeting and miusic** tab input the following values:
	- Greeting: **No greeting**
	- Music on hold: **Play default music**
1. In the **Greeting and music** window, click **Next** and in the **Call answering** tab input the following values:
	- Select **Choose users and groups**, and then select the **Add users** button. In the **Add users** pane that appears on the right-side of the screen, in the **Search by display name or username** box, enter **Allan**. As you type **Allan**, a popup appears listing users whose name starts with **Allan**. As you hover your mouse over **Allan Deyoung**, an **Add** button appears to the right of it. Select the **Add** button.  
		>**Important:** Note the red error message that appears across the top of the page. The error message indicates that Allan cannot be associated with this call queue because he is not enterprise-voice enabled. In the **Add users** window, select **Cancel**. 
	- Select the **Add groups** button. In the **Add call agents** pane on the right-side of the screen, in the **Search by distribution list or group name** box, enter **Sales.** As you type Sales, a window appears listing the groups whose name starts with Sales. As you hover your mouse over **Sales Department**, an **Add** button appears to the right of it. Select the **Add** button.  
	- In the **Add call agents** pane, the Sales Department appears under **Selected groups**. Select the **Add** button at the bottom of the pane.
1. In the **Call answering** window, click **Next** and in the **Agent selection** tab input the following values:
	- Routing Method: **Round Robin**   
	- Presence-based routing - **Off**
	- Call agents can opt out of taking calls: **On**
	- Call agent alert time (seconds) - 45 (entering the value in the field is easier than dragging the slider icon)
1. In the **Agent sekection** window, click **Next** and leave all setting to their default value in the **Call overflow handling**.
1. In the **Call timeout handling** window, leave all setting to their default and select **Submit**. **Call Queue 1** will appear in the list of Call queues.
1. Leave all tabs open in your browser and proceed to the next task. 

### Task 6 - Create a Calling Policy 
In Microsoft Teams, calling policies control which calling and call forwarding features are available to users. Calling policies determine whether a user can make private calls, use call forwarding or simultaneous ringing to other users or external phone numbers, route calls to voicemail, send calls to Call Groups, use delegation for inbound and outbound calls, and so on. A default global policy is created automatically, but admins can also create and assign custom calling policies.  
As part of her Microsoft Teams pilot project, Holly Dickson has been tasked with creating a custom calling policy for Adatum. Instead of customizing the default global policy, she will follow best practice guidelines and create her own customized policy that will be used as Adatum’s default policy
1. On **LON-CL1** you should still have the **Microsoft Teams admin center** open from the prior task. In the left-hand navigation pane, under the **Voice** group, select **Calling policies.**
1. In the **Calling policies** window, scroll down through the list to see the predefined calling policies and then select **+ Add** in the menu bar that appears above the list of calling policies.
1. In the **Calling policies \ Add** window, enter **Default Adatum Calling Policy** in the **Add a name for your calling policy** field at the top of the form.
1. Scroll down the page and select the following values for each setting (leave any other value to it default value):
	- Make private calls: **On**
	- Call forwarding and simultaneous ringing to people in your organization: **Off**
	- Voicemail is available for routing inbound calls: **Enabled**
	- Delegation for inbound and outbound calls: **Off**
	- Prevent toll bypass and send calls through the PSTN: **On**
	- Busy on busy when in a call: **Enabled**
1. Select **Save**, **Default Adatum Calling Policy** will appear in the list of Calling policies. Note the **yes** value in the Custom policy column.
1. Leave all tabs open in your browser and proceed to the next task.

### Task 7 – Manage External Access
With Microsoft Teams’ external access feature, Teams users from other domains can participate in your chats and calls. You can also block the users in specific domains from joining chats and calls.  
As part of her Microsoft Teams pilot project, Holly Dickson wants to block communication with users from a specific domain (spam.com) that has been the source of multiple spam attacks within Adatum over the past year. At the same time, Holly wants to allow communication with the users from another domain (microsoft.com) that is one of Adatum's key business partners.
1. On **LON-CL1** you should still have the **Microsoft Teams admin center** open from the prior task. In the left-hand navigation pane, select the **Users** group, select **External access.**
1. In the **External access** window, select the **Allow all external domains** menu and change its value to **Allow only specific external domains**
1. To add the domain in which you want to allow communication, select the **Allow domains** button.
1. In the **Add xternal domain** window, enter **microsoft.com** in the **Domain** field
1. Select **Done.** 
1. Select **Save.**
1. Select **Confirm** in the **Changes will take time to take effect** window.
11. Leave all tabs open in your browser and proceed to the next task. 

### Task 8 – Manage Guest Access
Microsoft Teams’ guest access feature is a tenant-level setting that is turned Off by default. Once this setting is turned On, you can configure settings for guests. IT admins can add guests at the tenant level, set and manage guest user policies and permissions, and generate reports on guest user activity.  
As part of your Microsoft Teams pilot project for Adatum, you will turn on guest access and then customize a variety of the guest settings as defined by Adatum’s project team.
1. On **LON-CL1** you should still have the **Microsoft Teams admin center** open from the prior task. In the left-hand navigation pane, under the **Users** group, select **Guest access**.
1. In the **Guest access** window, ensure the **Allow guest access in Teams** setting is to **On**.
1. Scroll down the page and select the following values for the **Messaging** section :
	- Edit sent messages: **Off**
	- Delete sent Messages: **Off**
	- Delete chat : **Off**
	- Chat: **On**
	- Giphy in conversations: **Off**
	- Giphy content rating: **Strict**
	- Memes in conversations: **Off**
	- Stickers in conversations: **Off**
	- Immersive reader for messages: **On**
1. Select **Save.**
1. Select **Confirm** in the **Changes will take time to take effect** window.
1. Leave all tabs open in your browser and proceed to the next task. 

### Task 9 – Manage Teams Settings
Microsoft Teams includes a variety of global settings that control performance within Teams. As part of her Microsoft Teams pilot project, Holly Dickson will configure a number of these settings as determined by Adatum’s project team.
1. On **LON-CL1** you should still have the **Microsoft Teams admin center** open from the prior task. In the left-hand navigation pane, select the **Teams** group, select **Teams settings.**

2. In the **Teams settings** window, select the following values for each setting:
	- Notifications and feeds
		- Suggested feeds can appear in a user's activity feed: **On**
	- Tagging
		- Tags are managed by: **Team owners and members**
		- Team owners can change who can manage tags: **On**
		- Suggested tags: **Sales** (press the space bar after entering this value); **Manufacturing** (press the space bar after entering this value); **Accounting** (press the space bar after entering this value)
		- Custom tags: **On**
		- Shifts app can apply tags: **Off**
	- Email integration
		- Allow users to send emails to a channel email address: **On**
		- Accept channel email from these SMTP Domains: **microsoft.com** (press the space bar after entering this value)
	- Files
		- Citrix files: **On**
		- DropBox: **Off**
		- Box: **Off**
		- Google Drive: **On**
		- Egnyte: **Off**
	- Organization
		- Show Organization tab in chats: **On**
	- Devices
		- Require a secondary form of authentication to access meeting content: **No access**
		- Set content PIN: **Required for outside scheduled meeting**
		- Surface Hub accounts can send emails: **On**
	- Search by name
		- Scope directory search using an Exchange address book policy: **On**
	- Safety and communications
		- Role-based chat permissions: **Off**
1. Select **Save.**
1. Select **Confirm** in the **Changes will take time to take effect** window.
# End of Lab 8