# Module 8 - Lab 9 - Exercise 1 - Configuring SharePoint Online settings
Now that Holly Dickson has configure Exchange Online and Microsoft Teams, she will begin preparing Adatum to implement SharePoint Online within the organization's Microsoft 365 pilot project. In this exercise, Holly will begin by configuring SharePoint Online settings to meet Adatum's business needs.

### Task 1 - Configure settings
1. Switch to **LON-CL1**, where you should still be logged in as the **Administrator** with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.
1. You should still have Microsoft Edge and the Microsoft 365 admin center open from an earlier lab. If so, proceed to the next step; otherwise, open Microsoft Edge, navigate to **https://portal.office.com/**, log in as **Holly@xxx.onmicrosoft.com** (where xxx is your tenant ID) and a password of **ibForm@tion**, and then in the **Microsoft 365** homepage, select **Admin** to open the Microsoft 365 admin center.
1. To start fresh in this SharePoint lab exercise, close any tab in the Edge browser other than the **Microsoft 365** homepage tab and the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
1. In the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Show all** (if necessary), then scroll down to **Admin centers** and select **SharePoint**. This will open the **SharePoint admin center** in a new tab.
1. If a **Take tour** window appears, click outside it to dismiss it.
1. In the left-hand navigation pane, select **Policies** and then select **Sharing**.
1. On the **Sharing** page, select **More external sharing settings** to expand this group of settings. Within this group of external sharing settings, select the **Guests must sign in using the same account to which sharing invitations are sent** check box, and select the **Allow guests to share items they don't own** check box (if it's not already selected by default). Scroll to the bottom of the window and select **Save**.
1. Leave all tabs open in your browser and proceed to the next task. 

### Task 2 - Configure user profiles
1. On **LON-CL1** you should still have the **SharePoint admin center** open from the prior task. In the left-hand navigation pane, select **More features**.
1. On the **More features** page, in the **User profiles** group, select **Open**.
1. On the **User Profiles** page, under the **People** group, select **Manage User Profiles**.
1. On the **User Profiles** page, enter **Nona** in the **Find profiles** field and then select **Find**. Nona Snider's account will appear in the account name list. 
1. In the list of accounts, select the **Account name** for **Nona Snider**. In the drop-down menu that appears, select **Edit My Profile**.
1. In the **User Profiles** page, in the **Manager** field, enter the name of your global account and select the **check names** icon to the right of the field and verify the field displays your global admin name.
1. In the upper-right corner of the page, select **Save and Close**.
1. Close the **Manage User Profiles** tab in your browser. This should return you back to the **SharePoint admin center** tab.
1. On the **SharePoint admin center** tab, it should still be displaying the **More features** page. In the **User profiles** group, select **Open**.
1. On the **User Profiles** page, under the **My Site settings** group, select **Setup My Sites**.
1. In the **My Site Settings** tab, scroll down to the **My Site Cleanup** section and in the **Secondary Owner** field, enter your global admin name and then select the **Check names** icon. Verify the field displays your global admin name.
1. Scroll down to the bottom of the page and select **OK**.
1. Close the **Manage Profile Service** tab in your Edge browser.
1. Leave all tabs open in your browser and proceed to the next task. 

### Task 3 - Configure apps
1. On **LON-CL1** you should still have the **SharePoint admin center** open from the prior task, and it should be displaying the **More features** page.
1. On the **More features** page, under the **Apps** group, select **Open**.
1. On the **Apps** page, select the **More Features** tab.
1. In the **More features** page, click on the **Open** button on the **Configure store settings** tile.
1. In the **Apps for Office from the Store** setting, select **No** to disable apps from starting when documents are opened in the browser.
1. Select **OK**.
1. Close the last two opened tabs in your browser to leave the **Microsoft 365** home page, the **Microsoft 365 admin center** and the **Sharepoint admin center** tabs opened.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured SharePoint Online service settings.
# Proceed to Lab 9 - Exercise 2