# Module 11 - Lab 12 - Exercise 1 - Monitoring Microsoft 365 Service Health 

As Holly Dickson concludes her Microsoft 365 pilot project, she is interested in viewing the health of Adatum's Microsoft services, including Office on the web, Yammer, and mobile device management cloud services. After doing a little research, Holly has discovered that this information is available on the Service health page in the Microsoft 365 admin center. Therefore, if Adataum experiences problems with a cloud service, Holly can check its service health to determine whether this is a known issue with a resolution in progress before she calls Microsoft Support or spends time troubleshooting.  
In this exercise, Holly will view the Microsoft 365 service health and several service health reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

### Task 1- View Microsoft 365 service health
1. On **LON-CL1** you should still be logged in as the **Administrator** from the prior lab exercise.
1. In your Edge browser, you should still have a tab open for the **Microsoft 365** homepage and the **Microsoft 365 admin center** and you should still be logged in as Holly Dickson.
1. In the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Show all**, select **Health**, and then select **Service health**.
1. On the **Service health** page, if any issue is present under the **Active issues** section, click on its title to open an information pane with informations about the issue. Review information about the issue, then close this issue pane.
1. On the **Service health** page, under **Microsoft service health** Look for the services list if any displays some problems or advisories. Try to attach this information to the previous issue.
1. On the **Service health** page, select **Issue history** on the menu bar. This displays a history of incidents and advisories that have been resolved.
1. In the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, in the left-hand navigation pane under **Health**, select **Message center**.
1. The **Message Center** page displays a list of all active messages related to  planned changes in the **Inbox**. Select a message to open a detail pane that provides a high-level overview of the planed change. Review any of the messages that interest you.
1.The **Archive** tab displays pasts changes. Select any entry in the list to view the details about it. Close the detail pane to return to the history list. Repeat this for any event that interests you.
1. Leave the Edge browser and all its tabs open and proceed to the next task.

### Task 2 - View reports in the Microsoft 365  admin center

1. On **LON-CL1** you should still be logged in as the **Administrator** from the prior lab exercise. In your Edge browser, you should also be logged into Microsoft 365 as Holly Dickson.
1. In the **Microsoft 365  admin center**, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Reports**. Note that as of this writing there are only 2 reports listed in this group. Select each of the reports to view information related to it.
1. Microsoft 365 includes a variety of additional reports, which can be found in the portals to which they apply. For example:  
	- Security reports are included in the Reports dashboard in the Defender portal. In the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, under the **Admin centers** group, select **Security**. This opens the **Microsoft Defender** portal. In the navigation pane select **Reports**.
	- Mail flow reports are included in the Exchange admin center. In the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, under the **Admin centers** group, select **Exchange**. This opens the **Exchange admin center**. In the navigation pane select **Mail flow**, in the **Reports** section.  
	Review any of the reports that are of interest to you. 
	>**Note:** Most of the reports have limited data due to the lack of data in your virtualized lab environment for the fictitious Adatum Corporation.
4. Leave the Edge browser open, and leave the **Microsoft 365** homepage tab open as well as the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab. However, close all other tabs and then proceed to the next task.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have monitored the health of Microsoft 365  services and viewed reports in the Microsoft 365  admin center.
# Proceed to Lab 12 - Exercise 2